New How-To chapter (#100)
pyansys/dev-guide: doc/source/how-to/contributing.rst

You create a branch with:

.. code-block:: bash

    git checkout -b <new branch name>

Branch Naming Conventions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The following requirements for naming branches helps to streamline
development. They help core developers know what kind of
changes any given branch is introducing before looking at the code.

-  ``fix/``: Bug fixes, patches, or experimental changes that are
   minor
-  ``feat/``: Changes that introduce a new feature or significant
   addition
-  ``junk/``: Experimental changes that can be deleted if they go
   stale
-  ``maint/``: General maintenance of the repository or CI routines
-  ``doc/``: Changes pertaining only to documentation
-  ``no-ci/``: Low-impact activity that should not trigger CI
   routines
-  ``testing/``: Improvements or changes to testing
-  ``release/``: Releases (see below)

Pushing a New Branch
--------------------
Once you have implemented new changes and committed them, you push your
branch, which uploads your changes to the repository. These changes are only
visible in the branch that you just pushed.

.. code-block:: bash

   git push -u origin <new branch name>

Creating a Pull Request
-----------------------

> Once you have tested your branch locally, create a PR and target your merge to

Author: ```suggestion
Once you have tested your branch locally, create a pull-request (PR) and target your merge to
```

- Describe how this feature might possibly be implemented and the steps that should be
  followed.

- Add any references that could help during the development process.

Reporting Bugs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you encounter a bug in the code, you open a new issue and select the template
for creating a bug report. In the bug report, try to:

- Indicate the operating system, Python version, and library version that you are using.

- Include a small piece of code to allow others to reproduce the bug you found.

- Add any additional information that you consider useful for fixing the bug.

Forking a Repository
--------------------
Forking a repository is like copying and pasting a project into your own GitHub
profile. Notice that only ``public`` labeled repositories can be forked. You
cannot fork a repository labeled as ``internal`` or ``private``.

To fork a repository click in the ``Fork`` button at the top of the project's
page you wish to fork.

Cloning a Repository
--------------------
Cloning a repo means downloading it to your local machine. There two ways of
doing this: using ``HTTPS`` or ``SSH``. To force the usage of ``SSH``, only this
method is exaplined in here.

> Cloning using SSH

Author: ```suggestion
Cloning Using SSH
```

Contributing
============
This page explains how PyAnsys development is conducted. When contributing to a
PyAnsys repository, use these general coding paradigms:

#. Follow the `Zen of Python <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/>`__.
   As silly as core Python developers are sometimes, there's much to be
   gained by following the basic guidelines listed in PEP 20. As suggested
   in these guidelines, focus on making your additions intuitive, novel,
   and helpful for PyAnsys users. When in doubt, use ``import this``.
   For Ansys code quality standards, see :ref:`Coding Style`.

#. Document your contributions. Include a docstring for any added function,
   method, or class, following :ref:`Numpydoc Docstrings`, as specified by
   PyAnsys :ref:`Documentation Style`. Always provide at least one simple use
   case for a new feature.

#. Test your contribution. Because Python is an interpreted language, if
   it's not tested, it's probably broken. At the minimum, include a unit
   test for each new feature within the ``tests`` directory. Ensure that

>    each new method, class, or function has reasonable (>80%) coverage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   each new method, class, or function has a reasonable (>80%) coverage.
```

.. code-block:: bash

   git push -u origin <new branch name>

Creating a Pull Request
-----------------------
Once you have tested your branch locally, create a PR and target your merge to
``main``. This will automatically run CI testing and verify that your changes
will work across all supported platforms. A detailed guideline of the process is
collected under the `Creating a pull request
<https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request>`_
section in the GitHub documentation.

For code verification, someone from the PyAnsys development team will review
your code to verify that it meets the :ref:`Packaging Style`, :ref:`Coding
Style`, :ref:`Documentation Style`.

Once your code is approved, if you have write permission, you may merge the PR
branch. If you don't have write permission, the reviewer or someone else with
write permission will merge your PR and then delete your PR branch.

.. admonition:: Always delete your PR branch after merging it into main branch

   Deleting merged branches is a good practice which ensures that origin
   branches do not get cluttered.

> 

Reviewer 2: This can be configured in the settings of the project to be done automatically. It should be enabled in all repos. We should include a warning saying this.

> Contributing

Reviewer 3: There is a contributing topic in the dev guide that explains how to contribute overall to a PyAnsys project. Each project has a contributing topic that refers to the dev guide topic and then supplies project-specific contribution information. I don't think we want to name this section Contributing. It would be confusing. Perhaps "General Coding Paradigms" to match the first sentence?

Author: Let us keep this title name for the moment. PyAnsys libraries should point to this guideline an expand it locally in their own CONTRIBUTING files.

============

> This page explains how PyAnsys development is conducted. When contributing to a
> PyAnsys repository, use these general coding paradigms:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before contributing to a PyAnsys repository, you must understand the general
coding paradigms being used for PyAnsys development.
```

#. Follow the `Zen of Python <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/>`__.
   As silly as core Python developers are sometimes, there's much to be
   gained by following the basic guidelines listed in PEP 20. As suggested
   in these guidelines, focus on making your additions intuitive, novel,
   and helpful for PyAnsys users. When in doubt, use ``import this``.
   For Ansys code quality standards, see :ref:`Coding Style`.

#. Document your contributions. Include a docstring for any added function,

>    method, or class, following :ref:`Numpydoc Docstrings`, as specified by

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   method, or class, following :ref:`Numpydoc Docstrings` as specified by
```

   PyAnsys :ref:`Documentation Style`. Always provide at least one simple use

>    case for a new feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   case for each feature.
```

#. Test your contribution. Because Python is an interpreted language, if
   it's not tested, it's probably broken. At the minimum, include a unit
   test for each new feature within the ``tests`` directory. Ensure that
   each new method, class, or function has a reasonable (>80%) coverage.

>    See :ref:`Testing` for automating testing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   For information about automated testing, see :ref:`Testing`.
```

Reviewer 3: There is nothing wrong with the way line 22 was written. It's just the Ansys style to say why you'd go to the link before providing the link.

#. Do not include any datasets for which a license is not available
   or commercial use is prohibited.

#. Review our `Code of Conduct
   <https://github.com/pyansys/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md>`_.

All ``PyAnsys`` projects are hosted in `GitHub <https://www.github.com/>`_ in

> the form of :ref:`Git` repositories. GitHub is a platform not only provides

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the form of :ref:`Git` repositories. GitHub is a platform that not only provides
```

Author: Good catch!

storage for projects but also additional features like code reviews or issue
boards.

.. raw:: html

     <br>
     <div align="center">
       <img width="50%;" src="https://github.githubassets.com/images/modules/logos_page/GitHub-Logo.png">
     </div>

Creating a GitHub account
-------------------------

> To use GitHub, start by creating a new account in the platform. Follow the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use GitHub, start by creating an account for the platform. Follow the
```

`GitHub Join Process <https://github.com/join>`_. If you require access to the

> `PyAnsys Organization <https://github.com/pyansys>`_, refer to `Alexander

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`PyAnsys Organization <https://github.com/pyansys>`_, email your request to `Alexander
```

Kaszinsky <mailto:alexander.kaszinsky@ansys.com>`_.

GitHub Repository Sections
--------------------------

> Once you have a GitHub account and access granted to the `PyAnsys` organization,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you have a GitHub account and access to the `PyAnsys` organization,
```

> you will be able to interact with the different repositories. All the
> repositories contain the following sections:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
you will be able to interact with the different repositories. Each
repository contains the following sections:
```

.. figure:: images/github_sections.png
   :alt: GitHub repository sections
   :align: center

* ``Code``: a tree view of the project's structure.
* ``Issues``: the issue and feature request board.
* ``Pull requests``: a board collecting new changes to be merged.

> * ``Discussions``: dialogs about development practices to be used by project maintainers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* ``Discussions``: Exchanges about development practices to be moderated by project maintainers.
```

> * ``Code``: a tree view of the project's structure.
> * ``Issues``: the issue and feature request board.
> * ``Pull requests``: a board collecting new changes to be merged.
> * ``Discussions``: dialogs about development practices to be used by project maintainers.
> * ``Actions``: the CI/CD panel showing the different available workflows.
> * ``Projects``: a panel for organizing and planning development in the repository.
> * ``Wiki``: devoted to show quick information of the project.
> * ``Security``: configurations related to security issues, vulneravilities and alerts.
> * ``Insights``: generic information about the repository and its contributors.
> * ``Settings``: allows to configure access and integration with third party tools.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* ``Code``: Tree view of the project's structure
* ``Issues``: Board for posting issues and requesting new features
* ``Pull requests``: Board collecting new changes that are to be merged
* ``Discussions``: Board for exchanges about development practices with project maintainers
* ``Actions``: CI/CD panel showing the available workflows
* ``Projects``: Panel for organizing and planning development in the repository
* ``Wiki``: Site devoted to providing project information
* ``Security``: configurations related to security issues, vulneravilities and alerts.
* ``Insights``: generic information about the repository and its contributors.
* ``Settings``: allows to configure access and integration with third party tools.
```

Author: Will capitalize first word after colon in unsorted lists from now on.

> .. note:: 
> 
>    Depending on your access level, you may not be able to see some of the
>    previous sections.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: I've deleted because I think this information needs to be stated in the introductory sentence as per my edits.

Creating an Issue
-----------------

> Issues are the way of requesting for help, a new feature or reporting a bug.
> They act like small posts including a comments section. This last section allows
> you to interact with other users, developers and project maintainers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You create an issue to report a bug or request help or a new feature. Commenting allows
you to interact with other users, developers, and project maintainers.
```

> To open an issue, check the ``Issues`` section in the :ref:`GitHub Repository
> Sections` and click ``New Issue``. GitHub issues require the usage of Markdown
> instead of RST. You can check `Basic Writing and Formatting Syntax
> <https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax>`_
> for this language.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To open an issue, select the ``Issues`` tab in the :ref:`GitHub Repository
Sections` and click ``New Issue``. GitHub issues require the usage of Markdown
files instead of ReStructured Text files. For more information, see `Basic Writing and Formatting Syntax
<https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax>`_.
```

Requesting New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you would like a new feature to be included in the software, you can create a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you would like a new feature to be added to the PyAnsys library, you can create a
```

new issue. When requesting a new feature, it is interesting that you include the
following sections:

- Describe the main goal of the feature to be included and why it is bennefitial
  to the project.

- If possible, describe how it could get implemented and which steps should be
  followed.

- Add any references which could help during the development process.

Reporting Bugs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you encounter some bug in your code, you can create a new issue to request a
> fix. When reporting a bug try to include the following data:
> 
> - Indicate your operating system, Python version and the version of the library
>   you are using.
> 
> - Include a small piece of code to allow others to reproduce the bug you found.
> 
> - Any additional data you consider useful for fixing the bug.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you encounter a bug in the code, you can create an issue to request a
fix. When reporting a bug try to include the following data:

- Indicate your operating system, Python version and the version of the library
  you are using.

- Include a small piece of code to allow others to reproduce the bug you found.

- Any additional data you consider useful for fixing the bug.
```

Forking a Repository
--------------------

> Forking a repository is like copy-pasting a project into your own GitHub

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Forking a repository is like copying and pasting a project into your own GitHub
```

> profile. Notice that only ``public`` labeled repositories can be forked. Those
> labeled as ``internal`` or ``private`` cannot be forked.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
profile. Notice that only ``public`` labeled repositories can be forked. You
cannot fork a repository labeled as ``internal`` or ``private``.
```

> To fork a repository click in the ``Fork`` button at the top of the project's
> page you wish to fork.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To fork a repository, click the ``Fork`` button at the top of the project's
``Code`` tabbed section.
```

Cloning a Repository
--------------------

> Cloning a repo means downloading it to your local machine. There two ways of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cloning a repository means downloading it to your local machine. There are two ways of
```

> Cloning a repo means downloading it to your local machine. There two ways of
> doing this: using ``HTTPS`` or ``SSH``. To force the usage of ``SSH``, only this
> method is exaplined in here.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cloning a repository means downloading it to your local machine. While there are two ways of
doing this (``HTTPS`` or ``SSH``), to force the usage of ``SSH``, only this method is explained.
```

> Cloning using SSH

Reviewer 3: I don't know whether to change it to "Using" for now, until we move to sentence case...?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Cloning using ``SSH`` requires you :ref:`Enabling SSH`. After that, you can

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cloning using ``SSH`` requires :ref:`Enabling SSH`. After that, you can
```

clone a repository by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone git@github.com:<user>/<repository-name>.git

For example, to clone the `PyMAPDL <https://github.com/pyansys/pymapdl/>`_

> project, you just need to run:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
project, you run:
```

> project, you just need to run:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
project, run:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone git@github.com:pyansys/pymapdl.git

Installing in Editable Mode 
---------------------------

> It is possible to install a Python library in so-called "editable mode". This
> allows you to modify the source code and reflect these new changes in your
> Python environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can install a Python library in "editable mode", which
allows you to modify the source code and have these new changes
reflected in your Python environment.
```

> To install a Python library in editable mode follow these steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To install a Python library in editable mode:
```

> 1. Make sure you :ref:`Create` and :ref:`Activate` a Python virtual environment,
>    as explained in the :ref:`Virtual Environments` section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Make sure that you :ref:`Create` and :ref:`Activate` a Python virtual environment,
   as explained in the :ref:`Virtual Environments` section.
```

> 2. Update `pip` by running:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Update `pip` with:
```

   .. code-block:: bash

       python -m pip install --upgrade pip

> 3. Install the library using:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Install the library with:
```

   .. code-block:: bash

       python -m pip install --editable .

> Creating a New Branch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Creating a Branch
```

> ---------------------

Author: ```suggestion
-----------------
```

It is likely that the default branch name is ``main`` or ``master``. This is the

> development branch, considering the :ref:`Branching Model` followed in PyAnsys
> projects. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
development branch for PyAnsys projects. For more information, see :ref:`Branching Model`. 
```

> New contributions need to be implemented in a different branch. Then, these
> changes are merged into ``main`` by :ref:`Creating a Pull Request`. To create a
> new branch run:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You must implement new contributions in a different branch. These
changes are then merged into the ``main`` branch by :ref:`Creating a Pull Request`.

Create a branch with:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    git checkout -b <new branch name>

Branch Naming Conventions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To streamline development, we have the following requirements for naming
branches. These requirements help core developers know what kind of
changes any given branch is introducing before looking at the code.

> -  ``fix/``: any bug fixes, patches, or experimental changes that are
>    minor
> -  ``feat/``: any changes that introduce a new feature or significant
>    addition
> -  ``junk/``: for any experimental changes that can be deleted if gone
>    stale
> -  ``maint/``: for general maintenance of the repository or CI routines
> -  ``doc/``: for any changes only pertaining to documentation
> -  ``no-ci/``: for low-impact activity that should not trigger the CI
>    routines
> -  ``testing/``: Improvements or changes to testing
> -  ``release/``: Releases (see below)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  ``fix/``: Bug fixes, patches, or experimental changes that are
   minor
-  ``feat/``: Changes that introduce a new feature or significant
   addition
-  ``junk/``: Experimental changes that can be deleted if they go
   stale
-  ``maint/``: General maintenance of the repository or CI routines
-  ``doc/``: Changes pertaining only to documentation
-  ``no-ci/``: Low-impact activity that should not trigger CI
   routines
-  ``testing/``: Improvements or changes to testing
-  ``release/``: Releases (see below)
```

Pushing a New Branch
--------------------

> Once you have implemented new changes and committed those, you need to push your
> branch. Pushing a branch means uploading your changes to the repository. These
> changes will only be seen by the branch you just created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you have implemented new changes and committed them, you push your
branch, which uploads your changes to the repository. These changes are only
visible in the branch you just pushed.
```

.. code-block:: bash

   git push -u origin <new branch name>

Creating a Pull Request
-----------------------
Once you have tested your branch locally, create a PR and target your merge to
``main``. This will automatically run CI testing and verify that your changes

> will work across all supported platforms. A detailed guideline of the process is
> collected under the `Creating a pull request

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
will work across all supported platforms. For detailed procedural information, see `Creating a pull request
```

<https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request>`_

> section in the GitHub documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in the GitHub documentation.
```

> For code verification, someone from the PyAnsys development team will review
> your code to verify that it meets the :ref:`Packaging Style`, :ref:`Coding
> Style`, :ref:`Documentation Style`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you submit your pull request, someone from the PyAnsys development team will review
your code to verify that it meets the :ref:`Packaging Style`, :ref:`Coding
Style`, and :ref:`Documentation Style`.
```

> Once your code is approved, if you have write permission, you may merge the PR

Reviewer 3: At some point, I need to determine that PR has been defined somewhere earlier as pull request.

Author: Adding pull-request definition right just at the start of the subsection the header.

> branch. If you don't have write permission, the reviewer or someone else with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and then delete the PR branch. If you don't have write permission, the reviewer or someone else with
```

write permission will merge your PR and then delete your PR branch.

> .. admonition:: Always delete your PR branch after merging it into main branch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. admonition:: Always delete your PR branch after merging it into main branch.
```

Reviewer 3: I'd like seeing the why as part of the note.

>    Deleting merged branches is a good practice which ensures that origin

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Deleting merged branches is a good practice that ensures that origin
```

>    branches do not get cluttered. Automatic deletion of branches can be setup in
>    ``Settings -> General -> Pull Requests`` section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   branches do not get cluttered. Automatic deletion of branches can be set up in
   ``Settings -> General -> Pull Requests`` .
```

>    Deleting merged branches is a good practice which ensures that origin
>    branches do not get cluttered. Automatic deletion of branches can be setup in
>    ``Settings -> General -> Pull Requests`` section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   You can set up automatic deletion of branches in
   ``Settings -> General -> Pull Requests``.
```

> 
>    Deleting merged branches is a good practice which ensures that origin
>    branches do not get cluttered. Automatic deletion of branches can be setup in
>    ``Settings -> General -> Pull Requests`` section.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Using GitHub CLI
----------------

> Developers may find useful not leaving the terminal when working in a project.
> For this reason, `GitHub CLI <https://cli.github.com/>`_ was devised.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because developers find not leaving their terminals useful when working in projects,
`GitHub CLI <https://cli.github.com/>`_ was devised.
```

This program allows you to interact with most of the features available in the

> web version of Github. A full list of the available commands is provided in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
web version of Github. For a full list of available commands, see the
```
